Let's talk about our next developer fundamentals and this one is understanding data structures a really
good programmer is a programmer that is able to decide what data structure to use when up until now
we've learned about dictionaries and lists and we'll learn about a couple more throughout the course
but a really good programmer a programmer who's experienced is able to understand what the tradeoffs
are when to use what.
And although I can give you a list of this is when you should do this and this is when you should use
maybe dictionaries.
The thing is this takes practice and experience.
So throughout our course and then the exercises that we're going to do the projects we're going to build
at the end.
I hope that this idea of understanding when to use what data structure makes sense to you.
But let's go back to our example.
When should you use a list and when should you use a dictionary Well the first thing we have to realize
that a dictionary is not sorted right.
A list has order it has zero one indexes.
So on and so forth.
A dictionary has no order.
So maybe if you want to have a list of people and line your shop well you should probably use a list.
But maybe you have a user that is playing a game and that user has first name maybe weapons maybe an
H that doesn't have to be ordered.
So you might use a dictionary.
Also you'll notice that dictionaries hold more information than lists right.
Because lists only have that single value.
That is a list.
Has the index and then whatever the value is in here we have a dictionary inside of a list which is
holding a lot of information.
Deep down a list is simply an index in some sort of a value here.
Right.
Versus a dictionary that holds a lot more information.
It holds a key.
So this could be the weapons of that user.
Hello can be the greeting of that user maybe is Magic is another information about that user.
So we're able to have both keys and values in a dictionary.
So it holds a lot more information.
And as we learn different data structures you'll have these different pros and cons.
You'll start to understand as to when to use what.
All right.
There's another developer fundamentals.
I'll see in the next one by.